Malachi, chapter 2 and verse 15, do not deal treacherously with the wife of your youth.
Now in Malachi's day, apparently Jewish husbands were dealing treacherously with their wives
by divorcing them, sometimes on frivolous grounds, and perhaps so as to marry younger women.
And the term treacherously was very appropriate.
Here the Hebrew word means to deal deceitfully, unfaithfully, a form of this verb means to
be a traitor.
And how Jehovah feels about this is no wonder he says what he does in verse 16 where he says
for, I hate divorce.
Jehovah hates treacherous deceitful conduct, Jehovah hates traitors.
In Proverbs 222 it says, the treacherous will be torn away from the earth.
Well happily the majority of marriages in Jehovah's organization did not experience such treachery.
However, caution is still needed.
You see, it's possible for even a once beautiful relationship to begin to sower.
And not only in a marriage, but in any relationship between two very close friends, between us
and the organization, even between us and Jehovah.
Well Malachi, chapter 2, Jehovah here gives us a formula for never letting things get
to that point.
Look again, the latter part of verse 15.
He says, so guard yourself respecting your spirit and do not deal treacherously.
Verse 16, latter part of it, and guard yourself respecting your spirit.
So you think about it, how does somebody get to the point where they begin to deal treacherously
with their beloved husband or wife?
How does somebody get to the point where two friends can no longer speak civil with each
other?
Somebody get to the point when they turn against Jehovah's organization.
We'll see long before they get to that point, something has been brewing under the surface.
Thus the comment, guard yourselves respecting your spirit.
And why is that appropriate?
Well grudges, harsh words, unresolved misunderstandings, questioning decisions that are made.
Maybe this can begin to fester and begin to rot a relationship from the inside out if
left unchecked.
Now we can see this by looking at, illustrate this, by looking at the example of two traders
in the Bible, looking at a Biotar and also Judas.
Now Biotar was a high priest who stuck with David right from the beginning when Saul was
trying to kill him through David's kingship, even when Absalon turned trader and tried
to take over the kingship, a Biotar was faithful to David.
But later in life, a Biotar became a trader.
He sided with David's other son, Adonija, when he tried to take over the kingship.
What happened?
Were there some unresolved issues that a Biotar buried?
In 1 Samuel chapter 22, it's recorded where King Saul had Dohag killed a Biotar's father
who was the high priest and 85 other priests because David went to a Biotar's father and
asked him for some bread and also a sword.
Only a Biotar escaped and he joined David's camp.
Well did, was this an unresolved issue with a Biotar?
Did he secretly always have in his mind?
You know if David had never involved my family, perhaps my father would still be alive.
And then there could be what could be seen as a rivalry or a competition between a Biotar
and Zadok.
Now Zadok was also a priest and a prophet.
At 1 Chronicles chapter 12 and verse 28, he's called a mighty and courageous young man.
However he served with Saul until Saul's death and then after Saul's death, he joined
David's camp.
Well from then on David used a Biotar and Zadok together.
In fact they're usually listed together but it's of interest that Zadok is always listed
first.
Even though a Biotar was the high priest.
Did a Biotar secretly maintain some feelings of jealousy or animosity towards Zadok?
See Zadok though he was a priest, he wasn't killed when Saul exterminated the priest.
Zadok sided with Saul and now he's the favorite one in David's camp next to a Biotar who
had been faithful to David right from the beginning.
See where there are some seeds of competition that grew between these two men.
Whatever it was, what aspect of a Biotar spirit did he not guard that caused him to eventually
turn traitor against David?
Now another example is that of Judas.
Jesus showed the ultimate betrayal and treacherous treachery.
Now no doubt Judas at one time loved Jesus dearly and enjoyed a very close relationship
with him.
His very appointment as an apostle indicates that Judas was also entrusted with caring for
the finances of Jesus and the Twelve.
And this also reflects favorably on him especially when you consider that this assignment wasn't
given to Matthew who had experience in handling the finances.
And we can just pitch your Judas there in the beginning listening to Jesus' words
eating with him, laughing with him and the others, but somewhere along the line something
started to develop in his spirit.
Now if you look in John chapter 6, we read that account when many of the disciples were
stumbled by Jesus' words regarding his flesh and his blood.
They left off following him in verse 61, John 661, it says that the disciples began to
murmur.
Verse 67, Jesus asked the Twelve, he says, you don't want to go also do you.
And we often focus on Peter's beautiful words of loyalty.
But we also it seems that at this point Jesus was starting to see seeds of bitterness starting
to grow in Judas.
Now look at what it says in John chapter 6 in verse 70 and 71.
Jesus answered them, I chose you Twelve, did I not?
But one of you is a slander.
He was in fact speaking of Judas, the son of Simon Ascariot.
You see was Judas starting to listen to those who were beginning to murmur against Jesus?
At John chapter 12 and verse 6 were told that Judas was a thief, he would take money from
the money box.
Well when did that start?
Was that after he saw some decisions made with the finances that he didn't quite agree
with?
According to Matthew and Mark's account, it appears that seeing Mary pour the perfumed
oil on Jesus was the last trigger for Judas.
He strongly objects and Jesus strongly rebukes Judas in that occasion right in front of
everybody.
And Judas no doubt stung by these words.
He leaves and just a few days later he betrays Jesus to the priest.
Well what is the point?
This happened in our life.
In injustice, a misunderstanding, strong discipline, being embarrassed in public, maybe feelings
of jealousy over privileges as somebody else has.
See these things happen to all of us at one time or another in our life or through our
life.
And each time this happens it drops a little seed if you will into our heart.
And if left unchecked, a poisonous root can begin to grow that eventually can cause
us to become a traitor against our marriagemate, against our close friend, against the organization
or even against Jehovah.
So what do we do?
Malachi 2.15, guard yourself respecting your spirit.
And notice what it says in Hebrews chapter 12, in verse 15.
Verse 12, 15, it says, carefully watch that no one fails to obtain the undeserved kindness
of God so that no poisonous root springs up to cause trouble and many are defiled by it.
Well how do we go about digging up poisonous roots?
Well by following the beautiful principles we have in the Bible, at Matthew chapter 5, 23
and 24, Matthew chapter 18 and verse 15, when there are problems, when there are misunderstandings
talk it out, work it out, do not leave them buried and unresolved, seek to gain our brother
or sister.
Matthew chapter 18, verse 35, forgive our brother from the heart, forgive and let go and
move on.
John chapter 13, verse 34, love one another.
Think back to when we fell in love with our husband or our wife.
What caused us to fall in love with them?
What caused us to develop that close bond between us and our best friend?
What was it that convinced us this is the truth?
Think back to that and see every time we do these things, we're pulling out one of those
poisonous roots and stopping it from growing.
It's an ongoing process that we do over and over again.
So may all of us be determined to guard ourselves respecting our spirit.
Now is not the time to allow any poisonous roots to begin to grow within us.
Keep our love for and our relationship for our mate if we're married with our friends
with the organization and with Jehovah strong.
And this will help us to stay loyal to loved ones and to Jehovah now and in the days to
come.